the fan tax p400 a digital was one of
the best cases we worked with last year
in fact we gave it best overall and best
airflow in our end of year case awards
show and the reason it did so well was a
couple of things one ultrafine mesh on
the front without a dust filter 2 it had
a full complement of stock fans but did
well with aftermarket ones also and then
finally it was a price of under $100 or
in theory but that case has rarely been
available now and especially for the
price it's supposed to be out because
retailers often increase it when the
demand is high today we're reviewing the
P 300 a which is a newer technically
shorter and cheaper alternative to the P
300 a made by the same company it's one
we saw at CES it's supposed to be a $60
case and it brings the ultra fine mesh
front to the budget tier of cases as
well before that this video is brought
to you by EB JS r-tx 2060 kayo we
previously reviewed the r-tx 2060 kayo
model for it's fused down RTX 2080 died
that uniquely benefited blunder and some
professional applications offering
better performance than expected in some
pro workloads while offering usual
strong our TX 2060 performance for
gaming the r-tx 2060 kayo also includes
the game deliver us the moon for free
with EVGA geforce r-tx cards EVGA is
actively restocking its r-tx 2060 kayo
with new ties which you can find a link
to the description below and so here it
is this is the case we showed at CES
it's not that much smaller but the case
does definitely have an important point
in the market if it actually does well
in today's review one of the things
we've noticed over the last couple of
years is that the cases in the 60 to 70
dollar price range have largely dried up
part of that is tariffs where you see
companies who were unable to get
exemptions from those although why they
were unable to we're not clear on but
you see companies increasing their case
for pricing by something like 15 18
percent and that's just increased the
the level at which you can actually buy
these in caves now another reason is
because the entire industry goes in
trends and all the manufacturers of
cases flocked to the trend of high-end
cases for a while so this market dried
up it's coming back though cases in the
past we've liked in roughly this price
territory would be the Silverstone
redline oh six which was something
around seventy five eighty dollars
originally and that case is mostly gone
at this point so we've been waiting for
good stuff to come out in the budgets
here this case only comes with one fan
unfortunately this wasn't fully
confirmed at CES but we're gonna make an
argument in this review as to why budget
cases specifically should include more
fans than maybe in the higher-end cases
a lot of people like to say that they
like to buy their own fans and that's
cool but what most people don't and too
you can't beat the manufacturer pricing
on fans so for a cheaper case it
actually makes more sense economically
to allow the manufacturer to bulk buy
and include fans in the case as opposed
to going out and buying your own this
case you'll end up having to not really
count as a $60 option it approaches
seventy five once you factor in the fan
cost because they are necessary but
that's the big thing that we'll be
talking about the thermal section build
quality all that stuff will go over as
well for sizing it's a slightly smaller
version of the P 400 a we've talked
about this recently as well but you're
going to see cases getting shorter now
that the industry has more or less moved
on from old tooling that had allowances
for things like five and a quarter inch
drives in the front or four additional
hard drives in the front of the case so
it's gotten down into the shorter tier
of cases similar to the 220 t and with
that all said let's get into the build
discussion written by Patrick and then
we'll talk through thermals and the
conclusion space is tight especially
inside the power supply shroud one way
that fan tax has addressed this is by
rotating the hard drive cage so that the
drive sleds eject from the front of the
case this orientation is a little more
convenient since the front panel is
easier to remove than either of the two
side panels however plugging cables into
drives will still probably require
taking the side off the major downside
is that rotating the hard drive cage
leaves even less space between the cage
and the power supply so there's barely
any space for the cables the cages are
movable in pieces but not adjustable to
other positions the p300 a it lacks the
RGB lighting effects of the p300
but it retains a single dash of white
light along the power splice shroud and
an RGB button control which has been
repurposed as a reset button it's a
strange sight to see a reset button
replace RGB rather than the other way
around the minor lighting in the p300 a
isn't obtrusive but a fan tax wanted to
save a few pennies this would have been
the place to do it we didn't even notice
the light until we'd started the testing
and it led to some confusion when the
nods and RGB control button on the front
panel did nothing to change it the glass
panel is a shortened design like the
NZXT h 500s and we still think this is
the best route for budget cases with
power supply straps spending money on a
full sized glass panel when a quarter of
it is just going to show the side of a
shroud makes no sense when every penny
counts and when we know the yields are
going to be worse when you start
drilling holes into the glass and if
you're curious about that we have a
glass factory tour for a computer case
Manufacturing glass and steel panels are
both held on by captive thumb screws at
the back which is a change from the
earlier P 300s design which just used
thumb screws through holes drilled in
the glass we prefer the P 300 a is
designed from both a functional and an
aesthetic standpoint but we'd like it
even more if the glass slotted into the
case along the whole bottom edge like it
does on the H 500 still points are
deserved for the upgrade the front panel
design isn't nearly the same as in the P
400 a with a super fine mesh acting both
as a panel and a filter this is the type
of front panel that we most prefer
that's our bias it's towards performance
and we've found that this one performs
amongst the best that's followed by mesh
front panels with additional filters
that are easily removable the P 300 A's
panel won't catch dust quite as
effectively as a traditional filter but
it gets the job done
and it allows much more air through
check our P 400 a review for more
thoughts on that one intriguing
difference is the use of a plastic cover
at the bottom edge of the front panel
which blocks off all the mesh below the
level of the power splash shroud that
may initially sound like a bad thing but
there are no fan mounts at the bottom of
the front panel and leaving an empty gap
here would just allow hot air to
potentially flow out of the shroud
and into the intake fans we've seen that
before we have seen limited
effectiveness too from these sorts of
tweaks but it shows that some thought
has been put it into the airflow layout
we don't have a peep 309 a on hand to
compare with but we know that it has
vents at the top and the bottom so some
retooling a reworking was required for
this new design the front panel is held
on with the same plastic snaps that we
complimented on the P 400 a and that
makes the front panel easy to remove for
cleaning and swapping parts and makes it
a worthy investment mentioning the front
panel means we have to revisit it's
single fan choice the P 300 a only comes
equipped with that single 120 mil stock
fan installed as exhaust behind the CPU
cutting fans is one way to bring down
the cost of a case but we believe
including a full set of fans in budget
cases is even more important than in the
higher end once people think that they
like to buy their own fans and many of
you might actually like doing that
however there's one really important
thing here with cheaper cases case
manufacturers can get a better price in
bulk then a customer can trying to buy
individual aftermarket fans even if you
are a fan elitist and you would actually
buy a $60.00 case and install 20 to 40
dollars of fans in it most people will
not and are not you so we think that
planning for most people in this
instance is the better choice especially
when you're not going to beat
manufacturer pricing on included fans at
this price point anyway an extra five
dollars to the customer is worthwhile as
an investment for an extra two fans
we'll discuss this more in the thermal
performance section of this review but
one fan is not enough and that adds to
the hidden cost of at least one or two
more 120mm fans to the total price a
feature we wouldn't expect at all from a
$60 case is a removable top panel it's
not mentioned in the manual or the
product listing at all and it's not in
any way convenient but the entire top of
the case can be lifted off independently
of the top i/o to make building easier
15 screws hold it in place but there
definitely screws and not rivets which
would have been the cheap route getting
the panel lined back up with all the
screw holes and the top i/o is fiddly
and we wouldn't really wreck
removing the panel on a regular basis
but it makes routing the CPU power
connectors and other cables at the top
of the case is much easier we actually
really like this feature even if it's
not marketed as one because when you
have to maintain an older system and it
might involve shoving your hands into
something with a bunch of sharp copper
or aluminum fins and getting diced up
while trying to unplug your power
supplies you can swap it because you
spent $30 on a power spot it went bad
this is going to help a lot in that
instance for a case that's intentionally
as compact and cramped as possible it's
a definite value added from us
radiator compatibility at the front of
the cases claims to be 280 millimeters
with clearance up to 315 millimeters but
that's generous 350 millimeters is the
total space between the top of the power
supply shroud and the bottom of the
front I owe 315 millimeters in total
height is actually unusually short for a
280 mil rad and even ones that are short
will have zero wiggle room and may not
line up with the mounting holes like the
Kraken X 62 we recommend using a 240 mil
or smaller radiator for this case
outside of that mountain is fairly
straightforward the P 300 a is
unfortunately one of the many cases that
claims to be an e ATX case without being
able to fit a full 12 by 13 inch
motherboard you can watch our piece on
ye ATX is a fake BS made-up form factor
that means nothing for more information
on this but we'll move on quickly here
the maximum supported board is 275
millimeters wide according to the manual
but that's a stretch we found the cable
cutouts along the edge of the
motherboard for the 24 pin power
connector etc to be both narrow and at
an inconvenient angle with the holes
positioned so that they point back
towards the edge of the motherboard a
275 mil wide board would butt up against
these cutouts and block them it require
an alternative cable path this case is
no good for motherboards larger than
full ATX and even for full ATX boards
who wish fantex would make the cutouts
wider so that they wrap around the
corner of the cable management bar and
allow for better 24 pin cable routing
let's get into thermal testing we stuck
mostly to the usual test suite for the P
300 a but we thought it deserved at
least one extra test to demonstrate what
performs
would have been like if fan tax had
included a couple of extra stock fans we
picked two arctic biotics f 124
inventory we installed them in the front
intake slots position so that they
wouldn't be obstructed by the fan mounts
and we carefully equalized the rotations
per minute to the single stock fan
approximately 1300 rpm F 120 s top out
at 1800 rpm and they are better fans
than average but that's not the point
we're representing a cheaper fan here if
one were included we have standardized
fantastic later on with three Noctua
fans at full speed if you want an
example of case performance with more
expensive fans but this one is to look
at something that is functionally
cheaper by reducing that rpm thermal
testing starts with a baseline torture
result for just the P 300 a and P 400 a
then we'll add the comparative tests the
P 300 a CPU temperature average 65
degrees Celsius delta T over ambient
when stock that's not quite at the point
of thermal throttling down from our
overclock but it's close
taking the front panel off lowered
that's 55 degrees over ambience but the
test with no front panel still has only
a single 120 ml stock fan cooling the
entire case this isn't to do with the
panel being unbreathable we've proven
and can highlight again here that the P
400 a style panels are exceptionally
high performing if made properly and
without other blockages like filters in
this instance it's a pressure equation
there's not much air flow in the case
and it's entirely negative pressure so
removing any impedance will
significantly help in a scenario in
which there's no intake fan at the front
this is also why testing a case like the
P 400 a with fan speeds that are
arbitrarily too low would lack the
static pressure required to overcome the
mesh and thus potentially produce poor
results removing the panel does allow
more cool air to be drawn in through the
case from the front but it's not nearly
as good as just adding two front intake
fans which resulted in a temperature of
47 degrees over ambient while having the
front panel still in place
we normally tasked with no front panel
as a best case possible scenario to
judge the other results against and to
see how much the front panel design is
restricting the thermal performance of
the case with so little active cooling
in the stock case any test which adds
one or more fans will have far greater
effect than just taking the front panel
off
for the record this front panel design
isn't restrictive at all just look at it
look at the case in the biro
check our P 400 a digital review for the
comparison between front panel on versus
off there which only lowered the CPU
temperature by about 4 degrees the p300
a has a lot of potential but you really
need some fans for it that might add to
the cost if they're not lying around in
your house already but it's a worthwhile
upgrade the comparative chart is next 65
degrees over ambience is dangerously hot
for our test bench and is on the edge of
thermal throttling the CPU this is not a
case that should be used with only stock
cooling the score fits on the chart
between the farah r1 and the stock pure
Bayes 590 X which isn't good there's
limited purpose to comparing
temperatures this high on the chart it's
beyond the threshold of usability and
there's no gradient in our scoring
between an F and an F plus they both
fail taking the plus to fans score as an
indication of what a user should be able
to achieve with another maybe fifteen
dollars the p300 a becomes massively
more competitive landing among the best
results on the opposite end of the chart
and even slightly outperforming the
larger p400 a if MSRP were 70 dollars
with a couple extra fans or 65 with the
really cheap two dollar supply ones the
p300 a would be highly competitive with
other cases in either 47 CCB UDT mark
like the be quiet pure base 500 DX that
we recently positively reviewed or the
Coolermaster h 500 m match GP torture
for only the fantex cases is next GPU dt
was 58 degrees in the torture test which
lowered significantly down to 52 degrees
celsius del t / ambient with the removal
of the front panel again to be
exceptionally clear that's not because
the panel itself is bad it's because
they're not enough fans and any
obstruction to the few present will be
exacerbated removing the panel was all
the help the GB cooler needed since
testing with the attitude front didn't
take fans and the panel back on resulted
in the same temperature
remember that GPU fans can create
interesting pressure dynamics involving
unanticipated intake through PCIe hole
punches or other small holes into the
back of the case so that's always at
play to the stock exhaust fan is nowhere
near the GPU and without additional
intake fans it's essentially sealed in
its own come
apartment at the bottom of the case and
left the stew in its own heat if adding
only one fans of the case we recommend
positioning it as an intake that will
benefit the GPU here's the comparative
chart as with the CPU test the GPU DT
with the stock configuration is among
the hottest on our chart that isn't
completely out of control
adding two fans didn't cause such a
dramatic Swain as it did in the CPU test
but it still ties the pure base 500 DX
and is only one degree warmer roughly
with an error than the P 400 a this case
has the same general design as the P 400
a and it deserves the P 400 a digital
treatment at least of a full stock set
of fans just may be kill the RGB to cut
the price the 3dmark fire strike extreme
stress test puts GPU dt up to 56 degrees
over ambient or about one degree lower
than the torture result when decimal
places are taken into account this would
be your gaming version of a test every
slight increase in temperature means a
decrease in clocks on the card to
account for it especially with
temperatures this high add in another
fan to the case will directly lead to
better performance however slight and
can aid in keeping cheaper systems alive
longer where lower life capacitors are
more commonly used 56 CDT is on par with
the cooler master and our 600 in this
test another budget mesh fronted case
that we reviewed positively overall but
critiqued for its underperforming stock
fans standardized fans are next before
you read too far into this chart please
remember that standardized fan testing
is inherently flawed I'll be it's still
useful in several ways if you don't
actually know what our reasons are that
it's flawed and you're just trying to
guess at them please open a new tab with
the link in the description below about
our standardized fan
testing methodology for cases CPU DT
with a standardized set of fans it was
46 degrees over ambient close to the
temperature that resulted from its line
two extra fans in a similar
configuration that ties the pure bass
500 DX is one of the best performance EP
results on our standardized to fan chart
so far although our pool of results for
this task remains far lower than the
others the p4 on today scored a little
better at 44 degrees Celsius over ambit
but both of these are really excellent
results compared to a more normal case
layout with a closed front panel like
the defined
at 56 degrees Celsius DT given
appropriate cooling this case can really
shine the GPU DT in this test was 49
degrees Celsius over ambient several
degrees better than the test with just
two 120mm fans added our standardized
set of fans uses two 140 ml intakes
which cover more area and force more air
under the GPU this is again a result
that's strong and in line with other
mesh fronted cases and the P 300 a
actually outperforms the P 400 a by
about two degrees here outside of our
error shortening the case slightly and
not allowing any fan mounts below the
power supply shroud means that two 140
mm fans taking up almost the entire
breathable area of the front panel
pushing a wall of air into the case
including only one fan of the case makes
the P 300 a relatively quiet but thanks
to some audible vibration we measured
the noise level to be thirty six point
seven DBA at max fan speed just slightly
above the threshold for Aaron noise
normalized testing lowering the fan to
90% speed or approximately twelve
seventy rpm quiet of this vibration but
the thermal results were predictably
terrible we don't consider this case
usable with the stock fan alone already
and lowering its P it only hurts
performance CPU temperature climbed
slightly from baseline 67 C while the
GPU remained at 58 CDT and simply down
clocked itself instead that puts it
between the two previous worst CPU DT
results the pure bass 590 X and the
zonda oh it's in better company for GPU
temperatures beating at least the Faro
r1 and the defined s2 vision RGB but
it's still definitely on the warm end of
the chart as demonstrated with the P 400
a RGB a case with tons of fans will
still perform better thermally even with
the fan RPMs lowered to equalize the
noise levels the P 400 a has one of the
best combined results on this chart
along with the pure bass 500 DX like
many of the budget cases we've reviewed
lately then this is in the same position
where it actually has a lot of potential
but it performs poorly in a stock
configuration and you should not use
this in a full stock configuration
especially if you're going to use only
like a downdraft cooler even for systems
that are going to be lower power
consuming like let's say you throw in a
some sort of upcoming a.m. the risin are
three CPU or an Intel i3 CPU or
something even in those instances it's
worth adding an extra fan at least and
ideally appointed sort of towards the
GPU area if not sort of somewhat split
between them with a 140 ml so it's a
case that has a hell of a lot of
potential it does well once you
complement it with fans and you should
basically consider the cost of the case
instead of $60 to be $75 so the question
becomes is a $75 case this one worth it
and well it's really not bad it's direct
competitor or direct consideration would
be the fantex P 400 from the same
company it's marginally bigger but it
should be about $90 on average for the P
408 digital that's another jump in price
if you can afford it it's good but if
you can't that's basically where this
one steps in it's the the safety net for
people who can't quite afford the P 400
a but can't afford a P 380 with extra
fans similar cases to this one we
include the fractal measure Phi C which
was originally $70 the Coolermaster and
are 600 similar in price as well and the
fara are one from silverstone and all
these are cases where extra fans are
recommended so it's not like it's a loan
with all that settled though there are
two major obstacles in the p 300 a's way
and that's going to be availability and
again the p 408 availability is all over
the place with fantex cases it's either
well it's probably a mix of relatively
high demand and not making enough so
good luck getting one they are out of
stock currently on both Amazon and
Newegg when we checked filming this but
we'll link it below anyway just in case
the P 400 a has been all over the place
in price please don't pay $150 for it
sometimes it hits that price it's a $90
case that's what you should pay for it
the P 400 A's primary advantages are
just going to be the fans and at some
extent build quality to a minor degree
but the interior of the P 400 a if you
remember our review we talked about how
the case is really it's not profound in
its quality for interior it's a
bare-bones stripped-down old tooling old
chassis with
just a good front on it and a good
complement of fans and that's what makes
it good it's this and the P 408 neither
of them are high build quality cases
they're just kind of they're good cases
for other reasons but that's not it
so at $60 if you're using that stock
we'd say definitely by fans and
basically consider it a bit more in
reality the difference in height and
sizing is about 1.5 centimeters shorter
top to bottom 7 centimeters shallower
front to back and that's pretty much all
there is to talk about this one so yeah
once you have the fans in it's good and
it's competitive but without it don't
use it that way so that's it for this
one thanks for watching subscribe for
more it's always you can go to store
documents exes Donna if you want to
support our work and get something
actually useful in return like the mod
mat which you can use for your PC builds
and they're back in stock and shipping
now by the way or you go to
patreon.com/scishow and access and
subscribe for more we'll see you all
next time
[Music]